README.md, before:

# 🛍️ Easy11 Commerce Intelligence Platform

> **A secure, AI-driven, full-stack e-commerce and analytics ecosystem combining data engineering, machine learning, and scalable web technologies.**

[![CI/CD](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/actions)
[![Test Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-85%25-brightgreen)](./frontend)
[![Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-0%20critical-green)](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/security/advisories)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](LICENSE)

---

## 📖 Overview

**Easy11 Commerce Intelligence Platform** is a next-generation e-commerce system designed to demonstrate real-world proficiency in:

- **Data Engineering**: ETL/ELT pipelines with dbt, Great Expectations, and Prefect
- **Machine Learning**: XGBoost, Prophet, ALS, and LightFM for recommendations, churn, and forecasting
- **System Design**: Scalable microservices architecture with C++ optimization modules
- **Full-Stack Development**: React + TypeScript frontend, Node.js + Express backend
- **Algorithmic Excellence**: Trie-based search, segment trees, LRU caches, and heap-based retrieval

---

## 🌟 Features

### 🛒 Customer-Facing
- **Modern E-commerce UI**: Responsive React storefront with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS
- **Smart Search**: Trie-based autocomplete with TF-IDF ranking
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Collaborative filtering with implicit ALS
- **Secure Checkout**: Stripe integration with PCI compliance
- **User Profile**: Order history, wishlists, and preferences

### 📊 Admin Dashboard
- **Real-Time KPIs**: Revenue, cohorts, conversion funnel
- **Churn & CLV Visualization**: XGBoost-based predictions with RFM segmentation
- **Forecasted Sales Trends**: Prophet/XGBoost time-series forecasting
- **Export Capabilities**: CSV, PDF, and image exports

### 🤖 ML & Analytics
- **Recommendation System**: ALS matrix factorization + content-based fallback
- **Churn Prediction**: XGBoost with RFM segmentation (AUC > 0.8)
- **Demand Forecasting**: Prophet for seasonal patterns
- **BI Dashboards**: Apache Superset integration
- **A/B Testing**: Prefect-orchestrated experimentation framework

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    React Storefront + Admin                     │
│                  (TypeScript + Tailwind CSS)                    │
└────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
┌────────────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Node.js + Express API                          │
│              (JWT Auth, RBAC, Rate Limiting)                    │
└─────────────────┬──────────────────────────┬────────────────────┘
                  │                          │
┌─────────────────▼────────────────┐  ┌─────▼─────────────────────┐
│   C++ Optimization Layer         │  │  Postgres/MongoDB         │
│   • Trie Search                  │  │  (OLTP Data)              │
│   • LRU Cache                    │  │                          │
│   • Segment Tree Filters         │  └─────┬─────────────────────┘
│   • ALS Matrix Factorization     │        │
└─────────────────────────────────┘        │
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────┴─────────────────┐
                         │   dbt + Great Expectations        │
                         │   + Prefect Orchestration         │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   Analytics Warehouse             │
                         │   (Postgres/BigQuery)             │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   FastAPI ML Service              │
                         │   • Recommendations               │
                         │   • Churn Prediction              │
                         │   • Forecasting                   │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   Superset / Metabase             │
                         │   Dashboards                      │
                         └───────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🧮 Core Data Structures & Algorithms

| Feature | DS/Algo Used | Complexity | Purpose |
|---------|-------------|------------|---------|
| Search Autocomplete | Trie (Prefix Tree) | O(k) | Fast prefix matching |
| Recommendations | Sparse Matrix + ALS | O(n²k) | Collaborative filtering |
| Trending Products | Min-Heap + EMA | O(log n) | Top-N rankings |
| Price Filtering | Segment Tree | O(log n) | Range queries |
| Pagination | Cursor + Binary Search | O(log n) | Efficient navigation |
| Cache | LRU (LinkedHashMap) | O(1) | Query optimization |
| Churn & CLV | Priority Queue | O(log n) | Real-time sorting |
| Search Index | Inverted Index + HashMap | O(1) | Text retrieval |
| Forecasting | Dynamic Programming | O(n²) | Time-series modeling |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React.js** 18.x with TypeScript
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Recharts** for visualizations
- **React Query** for data fetching
- **Zustand** for state management

### Backend
- **Node.js** 20.x with Express
- **Prisma** ORM for Postgres
- **C++17** modules (N-API integration)
- **JWT** authentication with refresh tokens
- **Helmet**, **CORS**, **Rate Limiting**

### Optimization Layer
- **C++17** with STL containers
- **Node-API (N-API)** for Node.js bindings
- **OOP patterns**: Factory, Strategy, Singleton
- **Memory-efficient** sparse matrices

### ML/Analytics
- **FastAPI** microservices
- **Python** 3.11+ (Pandas, XGBoost, Prophet, LightFM)
- **MLflow** for experiment tracking
- **Prefect** for orchestration
- **dbt** for ELT transformations
- **Great Expectations** for data validation

### Data
- **PostgreSQL** (OLTP + Warehouse)
- **MongoDB** (Session data)
- **Redis** (Caching)
- **BigQuery** (Optional: Large-scale analytics)

### DevOps
- **Docker** containerization
- **GitHub Actions** CI/CD
- **Terraform** for AWS ECS
- **Trivy** image scanning
- **CodeQL** security checks

### BI & Monitoring
- **Apache Superset**
- **Prometheus + Grafana**
- **Sentry** error tracking

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20.x or higher
- **Python** 3.11+
- **Docker** and Docker Compose
- **PostgreSQL** 15+ (or use Docker)
- **Redis** (or use Docker)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11.git
cd easy11
```

2. **Set up environment variables**

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

3. **Start with Docker Compose**

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. **Or run manually**

```bash
# Backend
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev

# Backend
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev

# Admin Portal
cd apps/admin
npm install
npm run dev

# Customer Frontend
cd apps/web/frontend
npm install
npm run dev

# Vendor Portal
cd apps/vendor-portal
npm install
npm run dev

# ML Service
cd ml_service
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn src.main:app --reload --port 8000

# dbt
cd dbt_project
dbt deps
dbt run
```

5. **Access the application**

- **Customer Frontend**: http://localhost:5173 (Vite default)
- **Admin Portal**: http://localhost:3001
- **Vendor Portal**: http://localhost:5174 (or next available port)
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:5000
- **ML Service**: http://localhost:8000
- **ML API Docs**: http://localhost:8000/docs

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
easy11/
├── apps/
│   ├── admin/                   # Next.js Admin Portal (Port 3001)
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── app/             # Next.js App Router pages
│   │   │   ├── components/      # UI components
│   │   │   └── lib/             # Utilities & helpers
│   │   ├── public/
│   │   └── package.json
│   │
│   ├── web/
│   │   └── frontend/            # React + Vite Customer Site (Port 5173)
│   │       ├── src/
│   │       │   ├── components/  # Reusable components
│   │       │   ├── pages/       # Page components
│   │       │   ├── hooks/       # Custom hooks
│   │       │   ├── services/    # API clients
│   │       │   └── store/       # State management
│   │       ├── public/
│   │       └── package.json
│   │
│   └── vendor-portal/           # React + Vite Vendor Portal (Port 5174)
│       ├── src/
│       ├── public/
│       └── package.json
│
├── backend/                     # Node.js + Express Backend (Port 5000)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── middleware/          # Auth, validation, etc.
│   │   ├── routes/              # API routes
│   │   ├── services/            # Business logic
│   │   └── utils/               # Utilities
│   ├── cpp/                     # C++ optimization modules
│   │   ├── search.cpp           # Trie-based search
│   │   ├── cache.cpp            # LRU cache
│   │   ├── segment_tree.cpp     # Range queries
│   │   └── recommender.cpp      # ALS matrix factorization
│   ├── prisma/                  # Database schema & migrations
│   └── package.json
│
├── ml_service/                  # FastAPI ML Service (Port 8000)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── models/              # ML models
│   │   ├── services/            # Training, inference
│   │   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   └── utils/               # Feature engineering
│   ├── feature_store/           # Feature store implementation
│   ├── mlflow/                  # Experiment tracking
│   └── requirements.txt
│
├── packages/                    # Shared packages
│   ├── telemetry-client/        # Telemetry SDK
│   └── sdk/                     # TypeScript SDK
│
├── dbt_project/                 # dbt transformations
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── staging/             # Raw data cleanup
│   │   ├── marts/               # Business models
│   │   └── intermediate/        # Reusable models
│   ├── tests/                   # Data tests
│   └── dbt_project.yml
│
├── great_expectations/          # Data validation
│   ├── expectations/            # Validation rules
│   └── great_expectations.yml
│
├── prefect_flows/               # Prefect workflows
│   ├── etl_flow.py              # ETL pipeline
│   └── ml_retrain.py            # Model retraining
│
├── infra/                       # Infrastructure
│   ├── terraform/               # Infrastructure as Code
│   └── telemetry/               # Telemetry config
│
├── docs/                        # Documentation
│   ├── architecture.md          # System architecture
│   ├── api_contracts.yaml      # OpenAPI specs
│   ├── dsa.md                   # Algorithms explained
│   ├── security.md              # Security practices
│   ├── QUICK_START.md           # Quick start guide
│   ├── TESTING_GUIDE.md         # Testing documentation
│   └── archive/                 # Archived documentation
│
├── scripts/                     # Utility scripts
│   ├── demo.ps1 / demo.sh       # Demo scripts
│   └── verify_dev.ps1 / .sh     # Development verification
│
├── docker-compose.yml           # Local development
├── docker-compose.superset.yml  # Superset configuration
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── ci.yml               # CI/CD pipeline
├── .env.example                 # Environment template (if exists)
└── README.md                    # This file
```

---

## 👥 Team & Contributions

### Ocean — Data Engineer & ML Specialist

**Responsibilities:**
- Architected data pipelines and ML services
- Implemented XGBoost, Prophet, ALS, and LightFM models
- Designed ETL/ELT with dbt and Great Expectations
- Containerized FastAPI ML microservices with MLflow
- Implemented heap-based retrieval, hash maps, and sparse matrices
- RFM-based churn scoring and time-series forecasting

**Resume Highlight:**
> *"Developed Easy11 Commerce Intelligence, a full-stack e-commerce and analytics platform integrating dbt, Great Expectations, Superset, and FastAPI ML microservices for recommendations, churn, and forecasting. Implemented heap-based retrieval, ALS matrix factorization, and RFM churn modeling, achieving HitRate@10 > 20% and AUC > 0.8."*

### Sameer — Full Stack & Systems Engineer

**Responsibilities:**
- Built React + TypeScript storefront and admin dashboard
- Integrated Stripe, JWT Auth, real-time analytics, and A/B testing
- Developed search, caching, and pagination algorithms in C++
- Deployed via Docker, GitHub Actions, and Terraform to AWS ECS
- Applied SOLID OOP principles and managed CI/CD
- Implemented Trie-based autocomplete and segment tree filtering

**Resume Highlight:**
> *"Engineered React + Node.js e-commerce system with C++ optimized modules (Trie, LRU, Segment Tree) for high-performance search and filtering. Built secure APIs, admin dashboards, and CI/CD pipelines with Docker, AWS ECS, and GitHub Actions; applied OOP and SOLID principles in full-stack development."*

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|
| Recommendation HitRate@10 | > 0.20 | ✅ 0.24 |
| Churn Prediction AUC | ≥ 0.80 | ✅ 0.83 |
| Forecast sMAPE | < 15% | ✅ 12.5% |
| API Latency (p95) | < 200ms | ✅ 145ms |
| Test Coverage | ≥ 85% | ✅ 87% |
| Security Vulnerabilities | 0 Critical | ✅ 0 |

---

## 🔐 Security

- **Authentication**: JWT with refresh token rotation
- **Authorization**: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
- **Data Encryption**: AES-256 at rest, TLS in transit
- **Input Validation**: Zod schemas, Helmet.js
- **Rate Limiting**: Express-rate-limit
- **Audit Logging**: Comprehensive event tracking
- **Secrets Management**: AWS Secrets Manager
- **Vulnerability Scanning**: Trivy, CodeQL

See [SECURITY.md](./docs/security.md) for details.

---

## 📅 Development Roadmap

### ✅ Sprint 1: Foundations & MVP Storefront
- [x] Basic storefront with auth and checkout
- [x] C++ modules (Trie + LRU)
- [x] Event tracking + OLTP schema
- [x] CI/CD configured

### ✅ Sprint 2: Analytics & Data Models
- [x] dbt models for orders and RFM
- [x] Great Expectations validation
- [x] Superset dashboards
- [x] Segment tree filtering

### ✅ Sprint 3: Machine Learning Services
- [x] ALS + XGBoost models
- [x] FastAPI ML endpoints
- [x] MLflow tracking
- [x] Prefect orchestration

### ✅ Sprint 4: Forecasts & Final Polish
- [x] Prophet forecasting
- [x] A/B testing framework
- [x] Audit logs + encryption
- [x] Documentation

---

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd backend
npm test

# Frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test

# ML service tests
cd ml_service
pytest

# Integration tests
docker-compose -f docker-compose.test.yml up --abort-on-container-exit
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICK_START.md)**: Get up and running quickly
- **[Architecture](./docs/architecture.md)**: System design and patterns
- **[API Contracts](./docs/api_contracts.yaml)**: OpenAPI specifications
- **[Testing Guide](./docs/TESTING_GUIDE.md)**: Testing documentation
- **[DSA Notes](./docs/dsa.md)**: Algorithms explained
- **[Security](./docs/security.md)**: Threat model and practices
- **[Deployment](./docs/deployment.md)**: Production deployment guide

For more documentation, see the [docs](./docs/) directory.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Apache Superset** for BI dashboards
- **dbt** for ELT transformations
- **MLflow** for experiment tracking
- **Prefect** for workflow orchestration
- **Trivy** for security scanning

---

## 📧 Contact

- **Ocean**: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ocean-ocean/) | [Email](mailto:oceanocean1823@gmail.com)
- **Sameer**: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sameer-yadav1) | [Email](mailto:rishisameer7@gmail.com)

---

<div align="center">
  <p>Built with ❤️ by Ocean & Sameer</p>
  <p>⭐ Star this repo if you found it helpful!</p>
</div>

Commit message:

Add project status section indicating active development and testing

README.md, after:

# 🛍️ Easy11 Commerce Intelligence Platform

> **A secure, AI-driven, full-stack e-commerce and analytics ecosystem combining data engineering, machine learning, and scalable web technologies.**

[![CI/CD](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/actions)
[![Test Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-85%25-brightgreen)](./frontend)
[![Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/security-0%20critical-green)](https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11/security/advisories)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](LICENSE)

---

## 📖 Overview

**Easy11 Commerce Intelligence Platform** is a next-generation e-commerce system designed to demonstrate real-world proficiency in:

- **Data Engineering**: ETL/ELT pipelines with dbt, Great Expectations, and Prefect
- **Machine Learning**: XGBoost, Prophet, ALS, and LightFM for recommendations, churn, and forecasting
- **System Design**: Scalable microservices architecture with C++ optimization modules
- **Full-Stack Development**: React + TypeScript frontend, Node.js + Express backend
- **Algorithmic Excellence**: Trie-based search, segment trees, LRU caches, and heap-based retrieval

---

## 🌟 Features

### 🛒 Customer-Facing
- **Modern E-commerce UI**: Responsive React storefront with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS
- **Smart Search**: Trie-based autocomplete with TF-IDF ranking
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Collaborative filtering with implicit ALS
- **Secure Checkout**: Stripe integration with PCI compliance
- **User Profile**: Order history, wishlists, and preferences

### 📊 Admin Dashboard
- **Real-Time KPIs**: Revenue, cohorts, conversion funnel
- **Churn & CLV Visualization**: XGBoost-based predictions with RFM segmentation
- **Forecasted Sales Trends**: Prophet/XGBoost time-series forecasting
- **Export Capabilities**: CSV, PDF, and image exports

### 🤖 ML & Analytics
- **Recommendation System**: ALS matrix factorization + content-based fallback
- **Churn Prediction**: XGBoost with RFM segmentation (AUC > 0.8)
- **Demand Forecasting**: Prophet for seasonal patterns
- **BI Dashboards**: Apache Superset integration
- **A/B Testing**: Prefect-orchestrated experimentation framework

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    React Storefront + Admin                     │
│                  (TypeScript + Tailwind CSS)                    │
└────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
┌────────────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Node.js + Express API                          │
│              (JWT Auth, RBAC, Rate Limiting)                    │
└─────────────────┬──────────────────────────┬────────────────────┘
                  │                          │
┌─────────────────▼────────────────┐  ┌─────▼─────────────────────┐
│   C++ Optimization Layer         │  │  Postgres/MongoDB         │
│   • Trie Search                  │  │  (OLTP Data)              │
│   • LRU Cache                    │  │                          │
│   • Segment Tree Filters         │  └─────┬─────────────────────┘
│   • ALS Matrix Factorization     │        │
└─────────────────────────────────┘        │
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────┴─────────────────┐
                         │   dbt + Great Expectations        │
                         │   + Prefect Orchestration         │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   Analytics Warehouse             │
                         │   (Postgres/BigQuery)             │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   FastAPI ML Service              │
                         │   • Recommendations               │
                         │   • Churn Prediction              │
                         │   • Forecasting                   │
                         └─────────────────┬─────────────────┘
                                           │
                         ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────┐
                         │   Superset / Metabase             │
                         │   Dashboards                      │
                         └───────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 🧮 Core Data Structures & Algorithms

| Feature | DS/Algo Used | Complexity | Purpose |
|---------|-------------|------------|---------|
| Search Autocomplete | Trie (Prefix Tree) | O(k) | Fast prefix matching |
| Recommendations | Sparse Matrix + ALS | O(n²k) | Collaborative filtering |
| Trending Products | Min-Heap + EMA | O(log n) | Top-N rankings |
| Price Filtering | Segment Tree | O(log n) | Range queries |
| Pagination | Cursor + Binary Search | O(log n) | Efficient navigation |
| Cache | LRU (LinkedHashMap) | O(1) | Query optimization |
| Churn & CLV | Priority Queue | O(log n) | Real-time sorting |
| Search Index | Inverted Index + HashMap | O(1) | Text retrieval |
| Forecasting | Dynamic Programming | O(n²) | Time-series modeling |

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React.js** 18.x with TypeScript
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Recharts** for visualizations
- **React Query** for data fetching
- **Zustand** for state management

### Backend
- **Node.js** 20.x with Express
- **Prisma** ORM for Postgres
- **C++17** modules (N-API integration)
- **JWT** authentication with refresh tokens
- **Helmet**, **CORS**, **Rate Limiting**

### Optimization Layer
- **C++17** with STL containers
- **Node-API (N-API)** for Node.js bindings
- **OOP patterns**: Factory, Strategy, Singleton
- **Memory-efficient** sparse matrices

### ML/Analytics
- **FastAPI** microservices
- **Python** 3.11+ (Pandas, XGBoost, Prophet, LightFM)
- **MLflow** for experiment tracking
- **Prefect** for orchestration
- **dbt** for ELT transformations
- **Great Expectations** for data validation

### Data
- **PostgreSQL** (OLTP + Warehouse)
- **MongoDB** (Session data)
- **Redis** (Caching)
- **BigQuery** (Optional: Large-scale analytics)

### DevOps
- **Docker** containerization
- **GitHub Actions** CI/CD
- **Terraform** for AWS ECS
- **Trivy** image scanning
- **CodeQL** security checks

### BI & Monitoring
- **Apache Superset**
- **Prometheus + Grafana**
- **Sentry** error tracking

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20.x or higher
- **Python** 3.11+
- **Docker** and Docker Compose
- **PostgreSQL** 15+ (or use Docker)
- **Redis** (or use Docker)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ocean-sameer/easy11.git
cd easy11
```

2. **Set up environment variables**

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

3. **Start with Docker Compose**

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

4. **Or run manually**

```bash
# Backend
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev

# Backend
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev

# Admin Portal
cd apps/admin
npm install
npm run dev

# Customer Frontend
cd apps/web/frontend
npm install
npm run dev

# Vendor Portal
cd apps/vendor-portal
npm install
npm run dev

# ML Service
cd ml_service
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn src.main:app --reload --port 8000

# dbt
cd dbt_project
dbt deps
dbt run
```

5. **Access the application**

- **Customer Frontend**: http://localhost:5173 (Vite default)
- **Admin Portal**: http://localhost:3001
- **Vendor Portal**: http://localhost:5174 (or next available port)
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:5000
- **ML Service**: http://localhost:8000
- **ML API Docs**: http://localhost:8000/docs

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
easy11/
├── apps/
│   ├── admin/                   # Next.js Admin Portal (Port 3001)
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── app/             # Next.js App Router pages
│   │   │   ├── components/      # UI components
│   │   │   └── lib/             # Utilities & helpers
│   │   ├── public/
│   │   └── package.json
│   │
│   ├── web/
│   │   └── frontend/            # React + Vite Customer Site (Port 5173)
│   │       ├── src/
│   │       │   ├── components/  # Reusable components
│   │       │   ├── pages/       # Page components
│   │       │   ├── hooks/       # Custom hooks
│   │       │   ├── services/    # API clients
│   │       │   └── store/       # State management
│   │       ├── public/
│   │       └── package.json
│   │
│   └── vendor-portal/           # React + Vite Vendor Portal (Port 5174)
│       ├── src/
│       ├── public/
│       └── package.json
│
├── backend/                     # Node.js + Express Backend (Port 5000)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── middleware/          # Auth, validation, etc.
│   │   ├── routes/              # API routes
│   │   ├── services/            # Business logic
│   │   └── utils/               # Utilities
│   ├── cpp/                     # C++ optimization modules
│   │   ├── search.cpp           # Trie-based search
│   │   ├── cache.cpp            # LRU cache
│   │   ├── segment_tree.cpp     # Range queries
│   │   └── recommender.cpp      # ALS matrix factorization
│   ├── prisma/                  # Database schema & migrations
│   └── package.json
│
├── ml_service/                  # FastAPI ML Service (Port 8000)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── models/              # ML models
│   │   ├── services/            # Training, inference
│   │   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   └── utils/               # Feature engineering
│   ├── feature_store/           # Feature store implementation
│   ├── mlflow/                  # Experiment tracking
│   └── requirements.txt
│
├── packages/                    # Shared packages
│   ├── telemetry-client/        # Telemetry SDK
│   └── sdk/                     # TypeScript SDK
│
├── dbt_project/                 # dbt transformations
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── staging/             # Raw data cleanup
│   │   ├── marts/               # Business models
│   │   └── intermediate/        # Reusable models
│   ├── tests/                   # Data tests
│   └── dbt_project.yml
│
├── great_expectations/          # Data validation
│   ├── expectations/            # Validation rules
│   └── great_expectations.yml
│
├── prefect_flows/               # Prefect workflows
│   ├── etl_flow.py              # ETL pipeline
│   └── ml_retrain.py            # Model retraining
│
├── infra/                       # Infrastructure
│   ├── terraform/               # Infrastructure as Code
│   └── telemetry/               # Telemetry config
│
├── docs/                        # Documentation
│   ├── architecture.md          # System architecture
│   ├── api_contracts.yaml      # OpenAPI specs
│   ├── dsa.md                   # Algorithms explained
│   ├── security.md              # Security practices
│   ├── QUICK_START.md           # Quick start guide
│   ├── TESTING_GUIDE.md         # Testing documentation
│   └── archive/                 # Archived documentation
│
├── scripts/                     # Utility scripts
│   ├── demo.ps1 / demo.sh       # Demo scripts
│   └── verify_dev.ps1 / .sh     # Development verification
│
├── docker-compose.yml           # Local development
├── docker-compose.superset.yml  # Superset configuration
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── ci.yml               # CI/CD pipeline
├── .env.example                 # Environment template (if exists)
└── README.md                    # This file
```

---

## 👥 Team & Contributions

### Ocean — Data Engineer & ML Specialist

**Responsibilities:**
- Architected data pipelines and ML services
- Implemented XGBoost, Prophet, ALS, and LightFM models
- Designed ETL/ELT with dbt and Great Expectations
- Containerized FastAPI ML microservices with MLflow
- Implemented heap-based retrieval, hash maps, and sparse matrices
- RFM-based churn scoring and time-series forecasting

**Resume Highlight:**
> *"Developed Easy11 Commerce Intelligence, a full-stack e-commerce and analytics platform integrating dbt, Great Expectations, Superset, and FastAPI ML microservices for recommendations, churn, and forecasting. Implemented heap-based retrieval, ALS matrix factorization, and RFM churn modeling, achieving HitRate@10 > 20% and AUC > 0.8."*

### Sameer — Full Stack & Systems Engineer

**Responsibilities:**
- Built React + TypeScript storefront and admin dashboard
- Integrated Stripe, JWT Auth, real-time analytics, and A/B testing
- Developed search, caching, and pagination algorithms in C++
- Deployed via Docker, GitHub Actions, and Terraform to AWS ECS
- Applied SOLID OOP principles and managed CI/CD
- Implemented Trie-based autocomplete and segment tree filtering

**Resume Highlight:**
> *"Engineered React + Node.js e-commerce system with C++ optimized modules (Trie, LRU, Segment Tree) for high-performance search and filtering. Built secure APIs, admin dashboards, and CI/CD pipelines with Docker, AWS ECS, and GitHub Actions; applied OOP and SOLID principles in full-stack development."*

---

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|
| Recommendation HitRate@10 | > 0.20 | ✅ 0.24 |
| Churn Prediction AUC | ≥ 0.80 | ✅ 0.83 |
| Forecast sMAPE | < 15% | ✅ 12.5% |
| API Latency (p95) | < 200ms | ✅ 145ms |
| Test Coverage | ≥ 85% | ✅ 87% |
| Security Vulnerabilities | 0 Critical | ✅ 0 |

---

## 🔐 Security

- **Authentication**: JWT with refresh token rotation
- **Authorization**: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
- **Data Encryption**: AES-256 at rest, TLS in transit
- **Input Validation**: Zod schemas, Helmet.js
- **Rate Limiting**: Express-rate-limit
- **Audit Logging**: Comprehensive event tracking
- **Secrets Management**: AWS Secrets Manager
- **Vulnerability Scanning**: Trivy, CodeQL

See [SECURITY.md](./docs/security.md) for details.

---

## 📅 Development Roadmap

### ✅ Sprint 1: Foundations & MVP Storefront
- [x] Basic storefront with auth and checkout
- [x] C++ modules (Trie + LRU)
- [x] Event tracking + OLTP schema
- [x] CI/CD configured

### ✅ Sprint 2: Analytics & Data Models
- [x] dbt models for orders and RFM
- [x] Great Expectations validation
- [x] Superset dashboards
- [x] Segment tree filtering

### ✅ Sprint 3: Machine Learning Services
- [x] ALS + XGBoost models
- [x] FastAPI ML endpoints
- [x] MLflow tracking
- [x] Prefect orchestration

### ✅ Sprint 4: Forecasts & Final Polish
- [x] Prophet forecasting
- [x] A/B testing framework
- [x] Audit logs + encryption
- [x] Documentation

---

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Backend tests
cd backend
npm test

# Frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test

# ML service tests
cd ml_service
pytest

# Integration tests
docker-compose -f docker-compose.test.yml up --abort-on-container-exit
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICK_START.md)**: Get up and running quickly
- **[Architecture](./docs/architecture.md)**: System design and patterns
- **[API Contracts](./docs/api_contracts.yaml)**: OpenAPI specifications
- **[Testing Guide](./docs/TESTING_GUIDE.md)**: Testing documentation
- **[DSA Notes](./docs/dsa.md)**: Algorithms explained
- **[Security](./docs/security.md)**: Threat model and practices
- **[Deployment](./docs/deployment.md)**: Production deployment guide

For more documentation, see the [docs](./docs/) directory.

---

## 🚧 Project Status

**Current Status**: Active Development & Testing

This project is currently under active development and testing. We are continuously working on:
- **Feature Development**: Building and enhancing core functionality
- **Testing & Quality Assurance**: Comprehensive testing across all components
- **Performance Optimization**: Improving system performance and scalability
- **Documentation**: Keeping documentation up-to-date with latest changes
- **Bug Fixes**: Addressing issues and improving stability

**Note**: As this is an active development project, some features may be in progress or subject to change. We recommend checking the [documentation](./docs/) for the latest updates and known issues.

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions, please feel free to open an issue or contribute to the project.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Apache Superset** for BI dashboards
- **dbt** for ELT transformations
- **MLflow** for experiment tracking
- **Prefect** for workflow orchestration
- **Trivy** for security scanning

---

## 📧 Contact

- **Ocean**: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ocean-ocean/) | [Email](mailto:oceanocean1823@gmail.com)
- **Sameer**: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sameer-yadav1) | [Email](mailto:rishisameer7@gmail.com)

---

<div align="center">
  <p>Built with ❤️ by Ocean & Sameer</p>
  <p>⭐ Star this repo if you found it helpful!</p>
</div>
